.TH DRO2TXT "1" "June 2011" "Camoto" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dro2txt \- list the events in a DROv2 capture
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dro2txt
< \fIinput.dro\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Convert a DRO file (a DOSBox raw OPL capture) read from stdin into ASCII text.
The text is sent to stdout and each line roughly describes an Adlib event.
.PP
The
events are printed such that things not affecting the audio output (such as
different ordering of the OPL register writes, or redundant register writes)
will not change the output.  Thus two different players could output quite
different OPL data yet providing the resulting music sounds the same, the text
produced by this utility would also be the same.
.PP
This utility is intended to be used in conjunction with \fBdiff\fR(1) to compare
two different .dro files.  A binary comparison in this situation is not
practical, as the files could be very different at the byte level yet sound the
same.  This utility will allow the files to be compared at the aural level.  Its
main use is in implementing new music formats, where a libgamemusic format
reader can be compared with a .dro capture of the original in-game music to
ensure the format is being converted correctly.
.SH "BASIC EXAMPLES"
.TP
\fBdro2txt < game.dro > orig.txt && dro2txt < output.dro > convert.txt && diff -u orig.txt convert.txt | less\fR
compare two .dro files and show any differences as a diff
.SH NOTES
The utility only supports version 2.0 of the DOSBox .dro format, used by DOSBox 0.73 and newer.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Adam Nielsen <malvineous@shikadi.net>.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <camoto@lists.shikadi.net>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2010-2011 Adam Nielsen.
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBdosbox\fR(1), <http://www.shikadi.net/camoto>
.PP
The DRO format is fully documented on the Game Modding
Wiki \fB<http://www.shikadi.net/moddingwiki>\fR.
.PP
This utility is part of the Camoto suite of tools.
