.TH GAMEMUS "1" "January 2011" "Camoto" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
gamemus \- read/write/convert game music files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gamemus
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIinput\fR \fIaction\fR [\fIaction...\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Perform the specified \fIaction\fRs on the given \fIinput\fR file.  The actions
are performed in order (i.e. the first action specified on the command line is
performed first.)
.SH ACTIONS
.TP
\fB-l\fR, \fB--list\fR
list all the events in the song, in text form
.TP
\fB-X\fR, \fB--extract-all\fR
extract all the files in the archive, saving them into the current directory
.TP
\fB-c\fR \fIformat\fR:\fIoutput\fR, \fB--convert=\fR\fIformat\fR:\fIoutput\fR
convert the input song into another format.  Use \fB--list-formats\fR to see
the available output formats.
.TP
\fB-d\fR \fIfile\fR, \fB--delete=\fR\fIfile\fR
remove \fIfile\fR from the archive
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-t\fR, \fB--type\fR
manually specify the song type.  Use \fB--list-formats\fR for a list of valid
values.)  The song type is normally autodetected, but it needs to be specified
for a few formats which lack signatures to identify them by.)
.TP
\fB-i\fR, \fB--list-formats\fR
print a list of supported file formats
.TP
\fB-f\fR, \fB--force\fR
open the archive as the given --type, even if it doesn't look like it's in
that format.
.TP
\fB-s\fR, \fB--script\fR
print output suitable for parsing by a script.
.SH "BASIC EXAMPLES"
.TP
\fBgamemus capture.dro -c imf-idsoftware-type0:out.imf\fR
convert a .dro file captured with DOSBox into an id Software .IMF file
.SH NOTES
.PP
Exit status is 0 on success, non-zero on failure.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Adam Nielsen <malvineous@shikadi.net>.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <camoto@lists.shikadi.net>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2010-2011 Adam Nielsen.
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBfile\fR(1), <http://www.shikadi.net/camoto>
.PP
All the archive formats supported by this utility are fully documented on the Game Modding
Wiki \fB<http://www.shikadi.net/moddingwiki>\fR.
.PP
This utility is part of the Camoto suite of tools.
